WIP: How We Work pt2: Push ups and Stand desks (#7)
EdutainmentLIVE/edutainmentlive.github.io: _posts/2018-11-28-how-we-work-exercise-and-stand-desk.md

# How We Work: Exercise and Stand Desks

by Cameron Gera (@gera-cameron)

![A photo of ITProTV Team doing push ups][]

## Why

The culture of our engineering team here at ITProTV encourages healthy habits. We all enjoy taking

> care of our bodies, so why wouldn't we want to do the same at work! The two main ways we do this is

Reviewer: Should this sentence end with a question mark? Or maybe an interrobang‽

through, you guessed it, team exercise and stand desks. There is a lot of research out there on what
improves workplace morale, but for us, these two elements help our team be the happiest and most
productive we can be.

## Team Exercise

> This element of our workday occurs at the 50th of every hour between eight and five. The exercises we do vary day

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the 50th of every working hour, we get a notification in [Slack](https://slack.com). The exercises we do vary day
```

> to day because we generally get sore. Some of the exercises include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to day because we generally get sore (note the everyone does them to their own ability, and we try really hard to encourage, rather than discourage, each other). Some of the exercises include:
```

- Push-ups
- Crunches
- Lunges

I know it sounds like a lot to do it every hour, but we have seen quite a few benefits of this:

1. Wakes us up and gets our blood pumping
1. Allows a break from the code we are writing
1. Increased productivity

> **Crazy Stat!** As a team, we have done over 20,000 push-ups since June 28th, 2018.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Crazy Stat!** As a team, we have done over 21,000 push-ups since June 28th, 2018.
```

This experiment has positively affected our team here. With taking just a few extra minutes a day,
we increased our work completed by 17% for a 4-month span. We have also encouraged other ITProTV
employees to join our Slack channel and together we keep each other accountable in living a healthy
lifestyle.

## Stand Desk

For our engineering team, stand desks offer another great way to keep a healthy lifestyle. As a team,
our use of the stand desk varies. I stand a few times a day and generally use a balance
board, while one of my coworkers stands a majority of the day. If you've read our previous
[post][] on
pair programming, you know that we spend a lot of time at stand desk pairing stations, so we tend

> to agree to stand or sit for a given pairing station.

Reviewer: The end of this sentence tripped me up. I expected it to say either "... stand or sit *at* a given pairing station." or "... stand or sit for a given pairing *rotation*."

## How To Get Started

Implementing these two ideas for your workspace will most likely vary in difficulty. For exercise, there is no
real cost associated. All you really need to do is get your coworkers on board and pick a time of the hour that
works best for each of you. I would recommend getting your whole team to do it, but if that's not possible, have
at least one other person do it with you. The accountability alone will increase your chances of success.

Getting stand desks may be a little bit more challenging because there is a cost associated. The cost of stand
desks range from $400 to $1000+, but fear not, there are other alternatives, such as a [cardboard][] stand desk
or an [adjustable height desktop][] stand desk. If you aren't ready to fully commit, I would definitely recommend
a cheaper option to see if a stand desk works for you.

As a team, we really only had one hesitation when beginning to exercise and that was the interruption of flow, but
after months of this experiment, exercise is here to stay in our daily routine, so I would encourage you to take a
leap and see if it works for you!

## In Review

> Over the last 5 months, our team has taking the time to invest in our health by exercising

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over the last 5 months, our team has taken the time to invest in our health by exercising
```

every hour and utilizing our stand desks. The results speak for themselves. Our moral is higher
and our productivity improved. Our tactics may not work for you, but I would encourage you to
take step towards implementing some of these ideas. I don't think you'll regret it!

[A photo of ITProTV Team doing push ups]: /assets/2018-11-26-push-ups.jpg

> [post]: http://engineering.itpro.tv/2018/10/24/how-we-work-pair-programming/

Reviewer: Jekyll has a neat way of linking to other posts. You can use `post_url` to generate links that respect the permalink settings:

``` markdown
[post]: {% post_url 2018-10-24-how-we-work-pair-programming %}
```

https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/tags/#linking-to-posts

[modest]: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/2047487317752186

> [cardboard]:https://www.amzn.com/B01GGNV6R0

Reviewer: Does this work without a space after the first colon?

Author: It does work, but I'll fix it for consistencies sake :)

> [cardboard]:https://www.amzn.com/B01GGNV6R0

Author: ```suggestion
[cardboard]: https://www.amzn.com/B01GGNV6R0
```

> [adjustable height desktop]: https://www.amazon.com/Zinus-Standing-Adjustable-Desktop-Workstation/dp/B07CYGJ2RX/ref=asc_df_B07CYGJ2RX/?tag=hyprod-20&linkCode=df0&hvadid=242006877549&hvpos=1o1&hvnetw=g&hvrand=10265816361159775945&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=1015033&hvtargid=aud-466360936450:pla-450725801987&psc=1

Reviewer: These monstrous Amazon URLs are a pet peeve of mine. You can use make much shorter URLs with `amzn.com`. This one would be <https://amzn.com/B07CYGJ2RX>.

# How We Work: Exercise and Stand Desks

by Cameron Gera (@gera-cameron)

![A photo of ITProTV Team doing push ups][]

## Why

The culture of our engineering team here at ITProTV encourages healthy habits. We all enjoy taking
care of our bodies, so why wouldn't we want to do the same at work!? The two main ways we do this is
through, you guessed it, team exercise and stand desks. There is a lot of research out there on what
improves workplace morale, but for us, these two elements help our team be the happiest and most
productive we can be.

## Team Exercise

At the 50th of every working hour, we get a notification in [Slack](https://slack.com) to exercise.

> The exercises we do vary day to day because we generally get sore (note the everyone does them to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exercises we do vary day to day because we generally get sore (note that everyone does them to
```

of the exercises include:

- Push-ups
- Crunches
- Lunges

I know it sounds like a lot to do it every hour, but we have seen quite a few benefits of this:

1. Wakes us up and gets our blood pumping
1. Allows a break from the code we are writing
1. Increased productivity

**Crazy Stat!** As a team, we have done over 21,000 push-ups since June 28th, 2018.

This experiment has positively affected our team here. With taking just a few extra minutes a day,
we increased our work completed by 17% for a 4-month span. We have also encouraged other ITProTV
employees to join our Slack channel and together we keep each other accountable in living a healthy
lifestyle.

## Stand Desk

For our engineering team, stand desks offer another great way to keep a healthy lifestyle. As a team,
our use of the stand desk varies. I stand a few times a day and generally use a balance
board, while one of my coworkers stands a majority of the day. If you've read our previous
[post]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-10-24-how-we-work-pair-programming %}) on
pair programming, you know that we spend a lot of time at stand desk pairing stations, so we tend
to agree to stand or sit for a given pairing rotation.

> As far as research is concerned, stand desk allow your body to burn a [modest][] amount of calories,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As far as research is concerned, a stand desk allows your body to burn a [modest][] amount of calories,
```
